## Assignment 3

The senior design project I will be working on is a web+mobile application that provides a community a platform to bring about a change. It intends to connect young members of the society a way to connect with their local politicians and get informed on local initiatives and programs. In this project, I aim to solve the obvious social problem described. Additionally, I also want to solve the technical challenges that come with developing a web+mobile app, as well as problems such as showing relavant information based on the locality of the user. Another technical challenge that will be interesting to solve is populating data, especially in a fast changing world. This will help me work on the skills I have learned in my college career.

During my college career, the classes I have taken as well as my co-op experience have led to learn more about web development and technologies used in web. Classes like CS1021C - Computer Science that tought me the fundamentals of programming and CS2028C - Data Structures that emphasized on various data structures used in solving various problems, have given me a strong foundation of computing principles. However, the classes I took in Fall 2021 helped me advance my knowledge in computing as well as boost my passion. One of those classes being Introduction to Cloud Computing (CS 5165). During this class, I learned how to host web apps on various cloud technologies like AWS and Azure, and want to expand on those skills by implementing CD/CI and seamless cloud hosting of my senior design.

Having spent five semesters on co-op, it bound to have influence my choice. During my second rotation at London Computer Systems, I learned a Typescript framework called Angular. This is when I first started building web application on a industry scale. I learned about various paradigms of asynchronous programming and a library called RxJS to handle it. By my third rotation at LCS, I was building complete pages that were communicating to various services and handling huge data. In my last co-op rotation, I was at a start up called Rokt, in NYC. I was mainly a front-end engineer and experienced both React and Angular. At Rokt, I experienced various technological challenges since our web app resided within other web applications, using iframes. This brought challenges that required the most foundational understanding of how the web works.


I am particularly motivated by this project because we aim on bringing a social good. In my co-op experiences so far, I have seen a lot of interesting uses of technology to solve real world problems, be it in steel manufacturing or in rent management systems. However, given how much potential technology has, I want to use it in strenghthening communities and bringing a direct positive impact to the society. It shouldnt be this hard to know your local elected officials, and it shouldnt be so easy to dismiss the importance of local policies. It is exciting to know that we can potentially use computer science to solve these issues.

My preliminary approach towards this is to find real life use cases and solidify our requirements (as suggested by our advisor, Dr. Niu). After that, I think we want to come up with UI designs as well as the overall architecture, such as all the data tables we will use, APIs, and the tech stack. To measure my success, I want to provide a MVP, or a minimum viable product. A product that meets our initial requirements and, if launched in the real world, can hold up beta users. Ideally, when we showcase this at the end of the academic year, I want the audience to be able to use the application by logging in and see how they can contribute to their local community.