## Assignment 3

In our most recent presidential election in 2020, the US saw something it hasn’t seen in years. Young people were taking to the streets and to the polls their frustrations and fervor with the state of the country. After the election ended, much of that passion has wasted away. However, the importance of the young vote (age 18-24) is just as vital as it was before, especially in our local government. The local government may seem unimportant to many, but the politics at the most minute level have the most impact on people’s everyday life. Our application aims at keeping young people engaged with politics. To empower them to enact change and garner community support for local politics. An app built by young people, for young people.

In my fifth year at UC, I am currently taking 18 credit hours. The required courses I’m taking this Fall are Artificial Intelligence, Automata, and Senior Design. I’m otherwise taking two electives for CS, User Interface 1 and Requirements Engineering, and a BANA elective, Descriptive Analytics & Data Viz. My foundational courses will be imperative for my senior design project. However, with the scope and purpose of the project, I know my User Interface course, Requirements Engineering course, anad Descriptive Analytics and Data Viz class will all be very helpful in making my capstone successful. Since our app is going to be pretty extensive with much room to grow and expand, taking Requirements to understand stakeholder needs early on will be key. Our application’s primary target demographic are young adults, and taking UI will help me compose a visually appealing and intuitive design for the app. Finally, we want to include analytics in our app. Knowing how to best represent the data is going to be important for users to grow making use of the content of the Data Viz course.

I’ve done three co-op rotations at 84.51 in Cincinnati and my double rotation at IBM in Chicago. My first two co-op were software engineering roles doing data engineering and automation. The following co-ops were front-end engineering focused where I got to work on each company’s design system. My more recent rotations at 84.51 and IBM have taught me a ton about design software, component libraries, and Javascript frameworks. We hope to use React Native for our capstone so the application will be dually useful as an iOS app and web app, so knowing React, Javascript, and design already has given me a more accurate idea of how to construct our project. In my first co-op, I worked on a forecast doing the SPC checks. I learned about cloud and big data and was taught how to use PySpark. For the data viz part of our app, my understanding of large scale data processing and aggregating data will come in handy.

As someone with strong leftist political views and Chinese American woman, I was sincerely disappointed by the 2016 election, the social changes invoked by the far right wing agenda, and the bipartisanship that’s tearing our country apart. In an effort to bring together the same young people that pushed Biden over the finish line, the application is meant to rally the community and bring about tangible change. I’m hoping this application will grow to be widely used by grassroots organizations, small groups, and even individuals looking to make a difference around them. That it’ll grow to be used to push politicians to pass bills and get more young people at the polls. By the time I graduate, I want our initial release of the project to go public so we can start collecting user feedback and iterating on the app.

For my capstone, I’m working with two very good friends of mine. Our advisor, Dr. Nan Niu, is our requirements engineering professor so our next steps from him are to develop at least 10 user stories for him to review. We plan to meet as a team to discuss what we want the app to look like (branding) and what features we want to prioritize in our first release. With so many features to consider such as polling, discussion boards, donating/monetization, and data visualization, we want to be smart about what epics we work on first vs. enhancements for later. All in all, my team and I are excited to start this project and can’t wait to see how our app will grow.
	
