# Senior Design Self Reflection
*Part A - Two Paragraphs: What was your individual contribution to this project? Did you apply and build upon the skills identified in your initial assessment from last Fall? What did you do and how did you do it? What did you learn and what competencies did you build? What were your successes, what were you obstacles?*
<br><br>
	For our project, Politic.ly, I mainly contributed as the lead designer, a frontend developer, and our project manager. All of the designs were made by me using Figma. I designed new pages as we progressed through our application, and continuously got feedback from my team and from potential users. Once designs were finished, I’d either delegate bringing them to life on the app to a teammate or I’d do it myself. Before we began developing too, I researched and selected the design system we used - Google Material UI. The decision to use a design system as the foundation for our component designs heavily sped up development. To keep our team on track and hold our team accountable, I set up recurring working sessions and an Asana sprint board. We prioritized visibility and transparency on our team, so teammates could work efficiently and get help as soon as possible. I managed our board by analyzing and creating new work and fleshing out ticket details. In comparison to the rest of the group, I see myself performing and contributing above average.
<br>
	In the development of Politic.ly, I learned a lot about full stack development, API’s, and taking a project from nothing to demo ready. I started our capstone project being design/frontend focused only. I wasn’t awfully familiar with the backend and hadn’t needed to use API’s much before doing work on design systems. Since we all needed to wear many hats for our project, I had identified growth in backend development as an area of growth when we started. My teammates were more familiar with backend development and less so with React, so we traded knowledge teaching each other what we didn’t know. In order to generate news in our application, we used the News API to pull recent news articles to plug into our NewsCard component. Getting experience with API’s was extremely helpful as it made me confident I can do it again in the future. What really surprised me was how much I learned about taking a project from start to demo. My expectations at the beginning were pretty unrealistic at the beginning. I thought we could accomplish a fully functional application with complex functionality and an impressive UI. However, considering we had to work on this project in tandem with our rigorous senior year schedules, it became clear we needed to scale down as the expo date approached. 
<br><br>
*Part B – Two Paragraphs: What did your group accomplish? What did you learn about group work? What aspects of teamwork were successful and what aspects of teamwork were not successful? How did your efforts on the project compare to that of your teammates?  Do any team members deserve special recognition?* <br>
  In the end, our team was able to present a functional prototype that allowed users to get a good handle on the basic experience of what our application could accomplish. We set smaller goals for ourselves for the expo demo including fleshing out all the necessary pages needed for standard workflows, adding realistic data to the database, favoriting functionality, and creating initiative functionality. Our application has a long way to go to be publish-ready, but our prototype got the point across in our demo. Over the last two semesters, I learned a lot about being flexible on a team and how to be a group leader. 
<br><br>
  My team initially tried to stick to pretty strict roles to keep work organized. It was working well in the beginning, but when we started pushing closer to the demo date, we needed to revise our strategy. We needed to shift to an ‘all hands on deck’ approach earlier than we did. When we did make the change, our efficiency grew and we got much more done. Although I’m glad the decision to shift was made, I just wish we’d done it earlier. On top of that, I realized I was not being cognizant of my team’s strengths and weaknesses as much as I’d thought I was. Accountability became an issue on my team, which led to team members showing up to meetings with nothing done (myself included). I know that team efficiency isn’t just about accountability, but knowing your team's strengths and applying them. Our team wasn’t working on what they did best when we started, but rather what we needed done. If we were gonna get more work finished, people needed to be working faster and what better way to do that by giving people work they enjoy and are good at.
