# Spring Semester Self Assessment<br>
  My individual contributions to our team’s capstone project mainly consisted of leading user interviews and fullstack development on our web application. I set up and conducted user interviews, which helped us make better design decisions and understand what user’s needs are. For my contributions to our web application, I did the initial set-up of our MongoDB Atlas and our ExpressJs backend. I then moved to working on the frontend, since this was where we needed the most work done.
<br><br>
  By working on our React frontend, I was able to learn about and gain experience with a framework that I previously had not worked with. It was interesting to compare and contrast this framework to Angular, which I am very familiar with, and see first-hand the differences between them. Even though I had previous experience with Angular, I experienced a big learning curve with React and it was definitely a challenge for me to get used to it.
<br><br>
  I am very proud of our group for creating a production-ready web application from scratch. I feel like we accomplished a great deal in the amount of time we had, and now have a product that we can easily continue to increase in scale and quality. It was very interesting to work on a web application while balancing classes full time. Since I am used to having all of my time dedicated to this type of work when I am on co–op, I had to balance my time wisely and make careful estimates of how long it would take to finish each feature or task.
 <br><br>
  Even though all of our team members had very different schedules, we were all very diligent with our weekly meetings and coding sessions, and this helped us stay on-track through this semester and keep our priorities and goals organized. I also think we wisely split up tasks according to each member’s skills, with Liz doing the design work and frontend development, and Jash and I focusing on fullstack development. 
